.TH HI "1" "February 2019" "hi 2.1.0" ""
.SH NAME
hi \- highlights lines containing keywords
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBhi\fR
[\fB\-l\fR|\fB\-w\fR|\fB\-p\fR]
[\fIOPTIONS\fR]
[\fB\-\-\fR]
\fIKEYWORD\fR...
.br
\fBhi\fR
\fB\-L\fR
[\fIOPTIONS\fR]
[\fB\-\-\fR]
\fIRANGE\fR...
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBhi\fR reads text from the standard input
and prints its input on the standard input.
Lines containing at least one of the given keywords
will be colorized
with ANSI escape codes.
.SH MODES
The program operates in one of several
.B output modes.
.br
The default output mode is \fB\-l\fR.
.TP
.B \-l, \-\-lines
Highlight lines:
All lines containing at least one of the \fIKEYWORD\fRs
will be highlighted in the output.
.TP
.B \-p, \-\-paragraphs
Highlight paragraphs:
All paragraphs containing at least one of the \fIKEYWORD\fRs
will be highlighted in the output.
.TP
.B \-w, \-\-words
Highlight words:
Only the \fIKEYWORD\fRs themselves
will be colorized in the output.
.TP
.B \-L, \-\-explicit, \-\-ranges
Explicit mode:
In this mode, there are no \fIKEYWORD\fRs.
Instead,
the program takes one or more line number \fIRANGE\fRs
which will be colorized.
For example, the invocation
\(lq\fBhi \-L 3 8-10 5\fR\(rq
will highlight lines 3, 5, 8, 9, and 10
but nothing else.
Line numbers start at 1.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB\-i\fR, \fB\-\-ignore-case\fR
Enable case-insensitive matching.
This is the default.
Note that the program is unaware of locales
and can only compare plain ASCII letters (\fBA\fR..\fBZ\fR)
case-insensitivly; all other characters will be compared byte-for-byte.
.TP
\fB\-I\fR, \fB\-\-case-sensitive\fR
Enable case-sensitive matching.
The opposite of \fB\-i\fR.
.TP
\fB\-c\fR, \fB\-\-color\fR \fICOLOR\fR
Select the output highlighting color.
Recognized colors are:
.PD 0
.RS
.IP - 2
.BR yellow / ye / yw
(default),
.IP - 2
.BR red / re / rd ,
.IP - 2
.BR blue / bl ,
.IP - 2
.BR green / gr / gn ,
.IP - 2
.BR cyan / cy / cn ,
.IP - 2
.BR white / wh .
.PD
.RE
.TP
\fB\-h\fR, \fB\-\-help\fR
Show program help.
.TP
\fB\-V\fR, \fB\-\-version\fR
Show program version information.
.SH LICENSE
.ad l
This program is released under the
GPLv3\~license
(https://www.gnu.org/licenses/gpl.html).
.P
It includes the "nstr" module
from the
csv-parser project
(https://github.com/mle86/csv-parser)
which is released under the
MIT\~license
(https://opensource.org/licenses/MIT).
.SH AUTHOR
Maximilian Eul <maximilian@eul.cc>
(https://github.com/mle86)
